README.md, before:

My playground for the examples of the famous book: ["Modern C++ Design"](http://erdani.com/index.php/books/modern-c-design/)

# Build
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/LukasWoodtli/ModernCppDesign.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/LukasWoodtli/ModernCppDesign)

# Contents

## Part I: Techniques

### Chapter 1. Policy-Based Class Design (p. 25)

| Section | Title                                     | Done |
|---------|-------------------------------------------|------|
| 1.1     | The Multiplicity of Software Design       |   ✓  |
| 1.2     | The Failure of the Do-It-All Interface    |   ✓  |
| 1.3     | Multiple Inheritance to the Rescue?       |   ✓  |
| 1.4     | The Benefit of Templates                  |   ✓  |
| 1.5     | Policies and Policy Classes               |   ✓  |
| 1.6     | Enriched Policies                         |   ✓  |
| 1.7     | Destructors of Policy Classes             |   ✓  |
| 1.8     | Optional Functionality Through Incomplete Instantiation | ✓ |
| 1.9     | Combining Policy Classes                  |   ✓  |
| 1.10    | Customizing Structure with Policy Classes |   ✓  |
| 1.11    | Compatible and Incompatible Policies      |   ✓  |
| 1.12    | Decomposing a Class into Policies         |   ✓  |
| 1.13    | Summary                                   |   ✓  |


### Chapter 2. Techniques (p. 49)

| Section | Title                               | Done |
|---------|-------------------------------------|------|
|  2.1    | Compile-Time Assertions             |   ✓  |
|  2.2    | Partial Template Specialization     |   ✓  |
|  2.3    | Local Classes                       |   ✓  |
|  2.4    | Mapping Integral Constants to Types |   ✓  |
|  2.5    | Type-to-Type Mapping                |   ✓  |
|  2.6    | Type Selection                      |   ✓  |
|  2.7    | Detecting Convertibility and Inheritance at Compile Time | ✓ |
|  2.8    | A Wrapper Around type_info          |   ✓  |
|  2.9    | NullType and EmptyType              |   ✓  |
| 2.10    | Type Traits                         |   ✓  |
| 2.11    | Summary                             |   ✓  |


### Chapter 3. Typelists (p. 76)

| Section | Title                               | Done |
|---------|-------------------------------------|------|
| 3.1     | The Need for Typelists              |   ✓  |
| 3.2     | Defining Typelists                  |   ✓  |
| 3.3     | Linearizing Typelist Creation       |   ✓  |
| 3.4     | Calculating Length                  |   ✓  |
| 3.5     | Intermezzo                          |   ✓  |
| 3.6     | Indexed Access                      |   ✓  |
| 3.7     | Searching Typelists                 |   ✓  |
| 3.8     | Appending to Typelists              |   ✓  |
| 3.9     | Erasing a Type from a Typelist      |   ✓  |
| 3.10    | Erasing Duplicates                  |   ✓  |
| 3.11    | Replacing an Element in a Typelist  |   ✓  |
| 3.12    | Partially Ordering Typelists        |   ✓  |
| 3.13    | Class Generation with Typelists     |   ✓  |
| 3.14    | Summary                             |   ✓  |
| 3.15    | Typelist Quick Facts                |   ✓  |


### Chapter 4. Small-Object Allocation (p. 104)

| Section | Title                                      | Done |
|---------|--------------------------------------------|------|
| 4.1     | The Default Free Store Allocator           |   ✓  |
| 4.2     | The Workings of a Memory Allocator         |   ✓  |
| 4.3     | A Small-Object Allocator                   |   ✓  |
| 4.4     | Chunks                                     |   ✓  |
| 4.5     | The Fixed-Size Allocator                   |   ✓  |
| 4.6     | The SmallObjAllocator Class                |   ✓  |
| 4.7     | A Hat Trick                                |   ✓  |
| 4.8     | Simple, Complicated, Yet Simple in the End |   ✓  |
| 4.9     | Administrivia                              |   ✓  |
| 4.10    | Summary                                    |   ✓  |
| 4.11    | Small-Object Allocator Quick Facts         |   ✓  |

## Part II: Components

### Chapter 5. Generalized Functors (p. 128)

| Section   | Title                                                 | Done |
|-----------|-------------------------------------------------------|------|
| 5.1       | The Command Design Pattern                            |   ✓  |
| 5.2       | Command in the Real World                             |   ✓  |
| 5.3       | C++ Callable Entities                                 |   ✓  |
| 5.4       | The Functor Class Template Skeleton                   |   ✓  |
| 5.5       | Implementing the Forwarding Functor::operator()       |   ✓  |
| 5.6       | Handling Functors                                     |   ✓  |
| 5.7       | Build One, Get One Free                               |   ✓  |
| 5.8       | Argument and Return Type Conversions                  |   ✓  |
| 5.9       | Handling Pointers to Member Functions                 |   ✓  |
| 5.10      | Binding                                               |   ✓  |
| 5.11      | Chaining Requests                                     |   ✓  |
| 5.12      | Real-World Issues I: The Cost of Forwarding Functions |   ✓  |
| 5.13      | Real-World Issues II: Heap Allocation                 |   ✓  |
| 5.14      | Implementing Undo and Redo with Functor               |   ✓  |
| 5.15      | Summary                                               |   ✓  |
| 5.16      | Functor Quick Facts                                   |   ✓  |


### Chapter 6. Implementing Singletons (p. 161)

| Section   | Title                                                                 | Done |
|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| 6.1       | Static Data + Static Functions != Singleton                           |   ✓  |
| 6.2       | The Basic C++ Idioms Supporting Singletons                            |   ✓  |
| 6.3       | Enforcing the Singleton's Uniqueness                                  |   ✓  |
| 6.4       | Destroying the Singleton                                              |   ✓  |
| 6.5       | The Dead Reference Problem                                            |   ✓  |
| 6.6       | Addressing the Dead Reference Problem (I): The Phoenix Singleton      |   ✓  |
| 6.7       | Addressing the Dead Reference Problem (II): Singletons with Longevity |   ✓  |
| 6.8       | Implementing Singletons with Longevity                                |   ✓  |
| 6.9       | Living in a Multithreaded World                                       |   ✓  |
| 6.10      | Putting It All Together                                               |   ✓  |
| 6.11      | Working with SingletonHolder                                          |   ✓  |
| 6.12      | Summary                                                               |   ✓  |
| 6.13      | SingletonHolder Class Template Quick Facts                            |   ✓  |


### Chapter 7. Smart Pointers (p. 193)

| Section   | Title                                            | Done |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------------|------|
| 7.1       | Smart Pointers 101                               |   ✓  |
| 7.2       | The Deal                                         |   ✓  |
| 7.3       | Storage of Smart Pointers                        |   ✓  |
| 7.4       | Smart Pointer Member Functions                   |   ✓  |
| 7.5       | Ownership-Handling Strategies                    |   ✓  |
| 7.6       | The Address-of Operator                          |   ✓  |
| 7.7       | Implicit Conversion to Raw Pointer Types         |   ✓  |
| 7.8       | Equality and Inequality                          |   ✓  |
| 7.9       | Ordering Comparisons                             |   ✓  |
| 7.10      | Checking and Error Reporting                     |   ✓  |
| 7.11      | Smart Pointers to const and const Smart Pointers |   ✓  |
| 7.12      | Arrays                                           |   ✓  |
| 7.13      | Smart Pointers and Multithreading                |   ✓  |
| 7.14      | Putting It All Together                          |   ✓  |
| 7.15      | Summary                                          |   ✓  |
| 7.16      | SmartPtr Quick Facts                             |   ✓  |


### Chapter 8. Object Factories (p. 237)

| Section   | Title                                                | Done |
|-----------|------------------------------------------------------|------|
| 8.1       | The Need for Object Factories                        |   ✓  |
| 8.2       | Object Factories in C++: Classes and Objects         |   ✓  |
| 8.3       | Implementing an Object Factory                       |   ✓  |
| 8.4       | Type Identifiers                                     |   ✓  |
| 8.5       | Generalization                                       |   ✓  |
| 8.6       | Minutiae                                             |   ✓  |
| 8.7       | Clone Factories                                      |   ✓  |
| 8.8       | Using Object Factories with Other Generic Components |   ✓  |
| 8.9       | Summary                                              |   ✓  |
| 8.10      | Factory Class Template Quick Facts                   |   ✓  |
| 8.11      | CloneFactory Class Template Quick Facts              |   ✓  |


### Chapter 9. Abstract Factory (p. 262)

| Section   | Title                                             | Done |
|-----------|---------------------------------------------------|------|
| 9.1       | The Architectural Role of Abstract Factory        |   ✓  |
| 9.2       | A Generic Abstract Factory Interface              |   ✓  |
| 9.3       | Implementing AbstractFactory                      |   ✓  |
| 9.4       | A Prototype-Based Abstract Factory Implementation |   ✓  |
| 9.5       | Summary                                           |   ✓  |
| 9.6       | AbstractFactory and ConcreteFactory Quick Facts   |   ✓  |


### Chapter 10. Visitor

| Section   | Title                                             | Done |
|-----------|---------------------------------------------------|------|
| 10.1      | Visitor Basics                                    |   ✓  |
| 10.2      | Overloading and the Catch-All Function            |   ✓  |
| 10.3      | An Implementation Refinement: The Acyclic Visitor |   ✓  |
| 10.4      | A Generic Implementation of Visitor               |   ✓  |
| 10.5      | Back to the "Cyclic" Visitor                      |   ✓  |
| 10.6      | Hooking Variations                                |   ✓  |
| 10.7      | Summary                                           |   ✓  |
| 10.8      | Visitor Generic Components Quick Facts            |   ✓  |


### Chapter 11. Multimethods (p. 308)

| Section   | Title                                               | Done |
|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------|------|
| 11.1      | What Are Multimethods?                              |   ✓  |
| 11.2      | When Are Multimethods Needed?                       |   ✓  |
| 11.3      | Double Switch-on-Type: Brute Force                  |   ✓  |
| 11.4      | The Brute-Force Approach Automated                  |   ✓  |
| 11.5      | Symmetry with the Brute-Force Dispatcher            |   ✓  |
| 11.6      | The Logarithmic Double Dispatcher                   |   ✓  |
| 11.7      | FnDispatcher and Symmetry                           |   ✓  |
| 11.8      | Double Dispatch to Functors                         |   ✓  |
| 11.9      | Converting Arguments: static_cast or dynamic_cast?  |   ✓  |
| 11.10     | Constant-Time Multimethods: Raw Speed               |   ✓  |
| 11.11     | BasicDispatcher and BasicFastDispatcher as Policies |   ✓  |
| 11.12     | Looking Forward                                     |   ✓  |
| 11.13     | Summary                                             |   ✓  |
| 11.14     | Double Dispatcher Quick Facts                       |   ✓  |

Commit message:

Add link to my notes

README.md, after:

My playground for the examples of the famous book: ["Modern C++ Design"](http://erdani.com/index.php/books/modern-c-design/)

# Notes

My notes to the book can be found [here](http://lukaswoodtli.github.io/modern_cpp_design.html)

# Build
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/LukasWoodtli/ModernCppDesign.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/LukasWoodtli/ModernCppDesign)

# Contents

## Part I: Techniques

### Chapter 1. Policy-Based Class Design (p. 25)

| Section | Title                                     | Done |
|---------|-------------------------------------------|------|
| 1.1     | The Multiplicity of Software Design       |   ✓  |
| 1.2     | The Failure of the Do-It-All Interface    |   ✓  |
| 1.3     | Multiple Inheritance to the Rescue?       |   ✓  |
| 1.4     | The Benefit of Templates                  |   ✓  |
| 1.5     | Policies and Policy Classes               |   ✓  |
| 1.6     | Enriched Policies                         |   ✓  |
| 1.7     | Destructors of Policy Classes             |   ✓  |
| 1.8     | Optional Functionality Through Incomplete Instantiation | ✓ |
| 1.9     | Combining Policy Classes                  |   ✓  |
| 1.10    | Customizing Structure with Policy Classes |   ✓  |
| 1.11    | Compatible and Incompatible Policies      |   ✓  |
| 1.12    | Decomposing a Class into Policies         |   ✓  |
| 1.13    | Summary                                   |   ✓  |


### Chapter 2. Techniques (p. 49)

| Section | Title                               | Done |
|---------|-------------------------------------|------|
|  2.1    | Compile-Time Assertions             |   ✓  |
|  2.2    | Partial Template Specialization     |   ✓  |
|  2.3    | Local Classes                       |   ✓  |
|  2.4    | Mapping Integral Constants to Types |   ✓  |
|  2.5    | Type-to-Type Mapping                |   ✓  |
|  2.6    | Type Selection                      |   ✓  |
|  2.7    | Detecting Convertibility and Inheritance at Compile Time | ✓ |
|  2.8    | A Wrapper Around type_info          |   ✓  |
|  2.9    | NullType and EmptyType              |   ✓  |
| 2.10    | Type Traits                         |   ✓  |
| 2.11    | Summary                             |   ✓  |


### Chapter 3. Typelists (p. 76)

| Section | Title                               | Done |
|---------|-------------------------------------|------|
| 3.1     | The Need for Typelists              |   ✓  |
| 3.2     | Defining Typelists                  |   ✓  |
| 3.3     | Linearizing Typelist Creation       |   ✓  |
| 3.4     | Calculating Length                  |   ✓  |
| 3.5     | Intermezzo                          |   ✓  |
| 3.6     | Indexed Access                      |   ✓  |
| 3.7     | Searching Typelists                 |   ✓  |
| 3.8     | Appending to Typelists              |   ✓  |
| 3.9     | Erasing a Type from a Typelist      |   ✓  |
| 3.10    | Erasing Duplicates                  |   ✓  |
| 3.11    | Replacing an Element in a Typelist  |   ✓  |
| 3.12    | Partially Ordering Typelists        |   ✓  |
| 3.13    | Class Generation with Typelists     |   ✓  |
| 3.14    | Summary                             |   ✓  |
| 3.15    | Typelist Quick Facts                |   ✓  |


### Chapter 4. Small-Object Allocation (p. 104)

| Section | Title                                      | Done |
|---------|--------------------------------------------|------|
| 4.1     | The Default Free Store Allocator           |   ✓  |
| 4.2     | The Workings of a Memory Allocator         |   ✓  |
| 4.3     | A Small-Object Allocator                   |   ✓  |
| 4.4     | Chunks                                     |   ✓  |
| 4.5     | The Fixed-Size Allocator                   |   ✓  |
| 4.6     | The SmallObjAllocator Class                |   ✓  |
| 4.7     | A Hat Trick                                |   ✓  |
| 4.8     | Simple, Complicated, Yet Simple in the End |   ✓  |
| 4.9     | Administrivia                              |   ✓  |
| 4.10    | Summary                                    |   ✓  |
| 4.11    | Small-Object Allocator Quick Facts         |   ✓  |

## Part II: Components

### Chapter 5. Generalized Functors (p. 128)

| Section   | Title                                                 | Done |
|-----------|-------------------------------------------------------|------|
| 5.1       | The Command Design Pattern                            |   ✓  |
| 5.2       | Command in the Real World                             |   ✓  |
| 5.3       | C++ Callable Entities                                 |   ✓  |
| 5.4       | The Functor Class Template Skeleton                   |   ✓  |
| 5.5       | Implementing the Forwarding Functor::operator()       |   ✓  |
| 5.6       | Handling Functors                                     |   ✓  |
| 5.7       | Build One, Get One Free                               |   ✓  |
| 5.8       | Argument and Return Type Conversions                  |   ✓  |
| 5.9       | Handling Pointers to Member Functions                 |   ✓  |
| 5.10      | Binding                                               |   ✓  |
| 5.11      | Chaining Requests                                     |   ✓  |
| 5.12      | Real-World Issues I: The Cost of Forwarding Functions |   ✓  |
| 5.13      | Real-World Issues II: Heap Allocation                 |   ✓  |
| 5.14      | Implementing Undo and Redo with Functor               |   ✓  |
| 5.15      | Summary                                               |   ✓  |
| 5.16      | Functor Quick Facts                                   |   ✓  |


### Chapter 6. Implementing Singletons (p. 161)

| Section   | Title                                                                 | Done |
|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| 6.1       | Static Data + Static Functions != Singleton                           |   ✓  |
| 6.2       | The Basic C++ Idioms Supporting Singletons                            |   ✓  |
| 6.3       | Enforcing the Singleton's Uniqueness                                  |   ✓  |
| 6.4       | Destroying the Singleton                                              |   ✓  |
| 6.5       | The Dead Reference Problem                                            |   ✓  |
| 6.6       | Addressing the Dead Reference Problem (I): The Phoenix Singleton      |   ✓  |
| 6.7       | Addressing the Dead Reference Problem (II): Singletons with Longevity |   ✓  |
| 6.8       | Implementing Singletons with Longevity                                |   ✓  |
| 6.9       | Living in a Multithreaded World                                       |   ✓  |
| 6.10      | Putting It All Together                                               |   ✓  |
| 6.11      | Working with SingletonHolder                                          |   ✓  |
| 6.12      | Summary                                                               |   ✓  |
| 6.13      | SingletonHolder Class Template Quick Facts                            |   ✓  |


### Chapter 7. Smart Pointers (p. 193)

| Section   | Title                                            | Done |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------------|------|
| 7.1       | Smart Pointers 101                               |   ✓  |
| 7.2       | The Deal                                         |   ✓  |
| 7.3       | Storage of Smart Pointers                        |   ✓  |
| 7.4       | Smart Pointer Member Functions                   |   ✓  |
| 7.5       | Ownership-Handling Strategies                    |   ✓  |
| 7.6       | The Address-of Operator                          |   ✓  |
| 7.7       | Implicit Conversion to Raw Pointer Types         |   ✓  |
| 7.8       | Equality and Inequality                          |   ✓  |
| 7.9       | Ordering Comparisons                             |   ✓  |
| 7.10      | Checking and Error Reporting                     |   ✓  |
| 7.11      | Smart Pointers to const and const Smart Pointers |   ✓  |
| 7.12      | Arrays                                           |   ✓  |
| 7.13      | Smart Pointers and Multithreading                |   ✓  |
| 7.14      | Putting It All Together                          |   ✓  |
| 7.15      | Summary                                          |   ✓  |
| 7.16      | SmartPtr Quick Facts                             |   ✓  |


### Chapter 8. Object Factories (p. 237)

| Section   | Title                                                | Done |
|-----------|------------------------------------------------------|------|
| 8.1       | The Need for Object Factories                        |   ✓  |
| 8.2       | Object Factories in C++: Classes and Objects         |   ✓  |
| 8.3       | Implementing an Object Factory                       |   ✓  |
| 8.4       | Type Identifiers                                     |   ✓  |
| 8.5       | Generalization                                       |   ✓  |
| 8.6       | Minutiae                                             |   ✓  |
| 8.7       | Clone Factories                                      |   ✓  |
| 8.8       | Using Object Factories with Other Generic Components |   ✓  |
| 8.9       | Summary                                              |   ✓  |
| 8.10      | Factory Class Template Quick Facts                   |   ✓  |
| 8.11      | CloneFactory Class Template Quick Facts              |   ✓  |


### Chapter 9. Abstract Factory (p. 262)

| Section   | Title                                             | Done |
|-----------|---------------------------------------------------|------|
| 9.1       | The Architectural Role of Abstract Factory        |   ✓  |
| 9.2       | A Generic Abstract Factory Interface              |   ✓  |
| 9.3       | Implementing AbstractFactory                      |   ✓  |
| 9.4       | A Prototype-Based Abstract Factory Implementation |   ✓  |
| 9.5       | Summary                                           |   ✓  |
| 9.6       | AbstractFactory and ConcreteFactory Quick Facts   |   ✓  |


### Chapter 10. Visitor

| Section   | Title                                             | Done |
|-----------|---------------------------------------------------|------|
| 10.1      | Visitor Basics                                    |   ✓  |
| 10.2      | Overloading and the Catch-All Function            |   ✓  |
| 10.3      | An Implementation Refinement: The Acyclic Visitor |   ✓  |
| 10.4      | A Generic Implementation of Visitor               |   ✓  |
| 10.5      | Back to the "Cyclic" Visitor                      |   ✓  |
| 10.6      | Hooking Variations                                |   ✓  |
| 10.7      | Summary                                           |   ✓  |
| 10.8      | Visitor Generic Components Quick Facts            |   ✓  |


### Chapter 11. Multimethods (p. 308)

| Section   | Title                                               | Done |
|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------|------|
| 11.1      | What Are Multimethods?                              |   ✓  |
| 11.2      | When Are Multimethods Needed?                       |   ✓  |
| 11.3      | Double Switch-on-Type: Brute Force                  |   ✓  |
| 11.4      | The Brute-Force Approach Automated                  |   ✓  |
| 11.5      | Symmetry with the Brute-Force Dispatcher            |   ✓  |
| 11.6      | The Logarithmic Double Dispatcher                   |   ✓  |
| 11.7      | FnDispatcher and Symmetry                           |   ✓  |
| 11.8      | Double Dispatch to Functors                         |   ✓  |
| 11.9      | Converting Arguments: static_cast or dynamic_cast?  |   ✓  |
| 11.10     | Constant-Time Multimethods: Raw Speed               |   ✓  |
| 11.11     | BasicDispatcher and BasicFastDispatcher as Policies |   ✓  |
| 11.12     | Looking Forward                                     |   ✓  |
| 11.13     | Summary                                             |   ✓  |
| 11.14     | Double Dispatcher Quick Facts                       |   ✓  |
